A little bit about the concept of what good is and how that applies to outsource labor.
This is a concept that really helped me when I started to wrap my head around it.
When I first started outsourcing it was very difficult as I noticed there were big differences between
what the outsourced labor would say is good and what I considered good.
At first I thought it was just this huge disconnect I just assumed that they were bad at what they did.
But actually what ended up happening was I kind of came to a little bit of a revelation and ever since
it's really helped me know what level of communication that I should engage with with mine contractors.
And for you the listener This is a side anecdote but I think it's something that is essential to you
understanding the perspective of the people that you hire.
So this really only applies to when you're hiring someone from a country that is cheaper in terms of
labor rates and that usually will mean that the country is significantly poorer than say a developed
country or G-20.
If you've never been to the country that you're hiring from whether it's you know Eastern Europe or
specifically India or even you know Central America this is something that's very hard for you to understand
because you assume we all use the same websites you assume that we all use the same design standards.
You kind of assume that what I think is beautiful is what they think is beautiful and they even Obviously
there's differences between countries that are right next to each other and have the same kind of socio
economic level.
Let's say that you hire a freelancer from India.
You're thrilled because you have huge cost savings but you might have followed a less rigid schedule
when developing the specifications for your application.
You might have erred on the side of I think that the developer can interpret what I'm saying and I don't
need to give every little bit of detail.
I don't need to say what style of button he should use and what color palette and what kind of interaction
should happen when I touch things on the Web site.
You kind of assume that all of that comes in tow that they just know that right.
That is a false assumption when it comes to an outsourced developer.
A lot of them simply either one do not understand what it is that you want or do they understand what
they think is good.
And so they're going to strive to achieve a Web site or a design that they consider good.
Now here's where the biggest discrepancy is if you've ever been to India.
And I did end up living there for quite some time and I got to use India as an example because this
is the I.T. outsourcing hub.
It's by far the biggest group when it comes to outsourcing and when you go and you start looking for
freelancers you probably noticed you know 40 50 percent of them are from India India Bangladesh even
Sri Lanka.
But if you ever go to India you will just notice that.
And it's not necessarily the country itself.
But if you just look at say a Web site or a billboard or a basic advertisement to you it just looks
physically unappealing it looks like a design standard that to us was used in the 90s.
I'm going to bring up a couple Web sites on the screen that you can see if you just go and look at say
in the top 10 Web sites you can notice what they consider a top 10 Web site and then look at the design
standard.
And you'll notice that their design standard by what we consider good that's what I would call subpar.
They have designs that you would associate with the old version of e-bay or very flat basic design they
can pull up a logo here this logo.
As you notice it has that and gloss candied effect with a gradient that runs to the top.
That was a design standard in the United States back in like right around when the iPhone was coming
out like 2006 2007.
We'd like to Candy everything since 2010 or 11 that stopped being considered by the general US population
as a good design standard.
And so we moved on then we moved on to like what we Apple would call skew morphic designs.
Remember the old iOS Apple with the buttons that look like they're almost 3-D in a sense they look like
they're actually physically there and in sense with iOS 8.
We've moved on to flat basic design and we're now shifting towards flat is beautiful.
So you know I kind of described how the trends are in the United States.
Other countries have different trends but specifically in India are trends just typically a lag behind
the United States.
And so if you live in India and you're constantly consuming all of this advertisement consuming all
these Web sites mobile apps and they're on a different design standard when you naturally intuitively
think of what is good and when you're making an application and you don't have directions as to how
to make something work or make something look you're going to default to or try to achieve what you
consider to be good.
Now good is very relative.
And that is where the biggest disconnect I've ever experience with outsourced labor is they don't understand
what your level of good is and they're good for us is terrible.
You know you could see these examples I brought up these are just normal things that you see on an everyday
basis.
And again to us ugly to them totally normal it this is not to say that they don't have beautiful advertisements
so they don't have beautiful Web sites clear trip is a great example of an Indian airline booking website
that's fantastic but then it links you to the airlines in India and their Web sites are just horrible.
Look look front page from the 1990s.
You need to keep this in mind when you are writing your specifications and when you're communicating
with the developer do not assume they know what you want.
Be as specific as possible especially be specific when it comes to things like the design and things
like what type of javascript you should use.
Now when I say design I mean show them a Web site and say I like the design from this.
I want it to look like this.
Ideally show them two or three if they don't know how to recreate that they can use some place that
kind of copying techniques.
The point is you're setting a baseline for them.
They just know the end of the day.
This is what it should look like.
And that's going to allow them to make improvisations on the spot.
And then what do I mean by what type of javascript you should be using.
I mean what interactions you should use.
Go to a Web site and focus solely on what happens when you click things.
What happens when you load pages.
There are all sorts of intermediate pages that you just are not aware of because you're used to it.
Like for instance if you look at the lecture I'm doing on e Lance when I go and load my dashboard.
Typically an Indian Web site will just leave it blank and then have something show up once it's loaded.
Elance is going to show a spinning loader so I can know that unexpecting content to come in right now
it's not ready to load.
That's an intermediate page is what I essentially call it interaction things that move you need to be
as specific as possible.
The way that you can kind of avoid this good trap is through documentation.
And when you work with your graphic designer sketch out all of the pages you want to design and then
design an extra 50 percent Design intermediate pages design what a list looks like when it doesn't come
up with something design with the 404 page looks like design everything that could possibly happen every
different color that could happen that when you're like highlighting taxed try to think of every single
instance and design that.
And that way when you use outsource labor you don't have to rely on them to determine in their head
what good is.
They can just follow your directions but then make sure that they have an example Web site showing what
you consider good quality so that they can look at those and then refer back to them in times when they're
in doubt.
If you want to get deeper into this go to Lexa dotcom site rankings and just look at some of the common
countries that you outsource to and then look at the Web sites that are in the top 10 typically top
10.
You know obviously you have are the big ones like Google and Facebook but look at the ones that are
very specific to that area.
Look at the bank Web sites look at the airline Web sites Nagin start to get an idea of what they consider
beautiful in terms of web design standards.
And this will just give you an idea that there actually is a very big gap between what I'm talking about
when I say good and what they think when they say good the way that you avoid this trap is you communicate
more.
You add more detail to your specifications and you cover as many bases as you can with the terms of
screen design when you're working with their graphic design.